---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "castai_commitments Resource - terraform-provider-castai"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Commitments represent cloud service provider reserved instances (Azure) and commited use discounts (GCP) that can be used by CAST AI autoscaler.
---

# castai_commitments (Resource)

Commitments represent cloud service provider reserved instances (Azure) and commited use discounts (GCP) that can be used by CAST AI autoscaler.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "castai_commitments" "gcp_test" {
  gcp_cuds_json = file("./cuds.json")
  gcp_cud_configs {
    matcher {
      region = "us-east4"
      type   = "COMPUTE_OPTIMIZED_C2D"
      name   = "test"
    }
    prioritization = true
    allowed_usage  = 0.6
    status         = "Inactive"
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `azure_reservations_csv` (String) CSV file containing reservations exported from Azure.
- `gcp_cud_configs` (Block List) List of GCP CUD configurations. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--gcp_cud_configs))
- `gcp_cuds_json` (String) JSON file containing CUDs exported from GCP.
- `timeouts` (Block, Optional) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--timeouts))

### Read-Only

- `azure_reservations` (List of Object) List of Azure reservations. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--azure_reservations))
- `gcp_cuds` (List of Object) List of GCP CUDs. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--gcp_cuds))
- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.

<a id="nestedblock--gcp_cud_configs"></a>
### Nested Schema for `gcp_cud_configs`

Required:

- `matcher` (Block List, Min: 1, Max: 1) Matcher used to map config to a commitment. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--gcp_cud_configs--matcher))

Optional:

- `allowed_usage` (Number) Allowed usage of the commitment. The value is between 0 (0%) and 1 (100%).
- `prioritization` (Boolean) If enabled, it's possible to assign priorities to the assigned clusters.
- `status` (String) Status of the commitment in CAST AI.

<a id="nestedblock--gcp_cud_configs--matcher"></a>
### Nested Schema for `gcp_cud_configs.matcher`

Required:

- `name` (String) Name of the commitment to match.
- `region` (String) Region of the commitment to match.

Optional:

- `type` (String) Type of the commitment to match. For compute resources, it's the type of the machine.



<a id="nestedblock--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String)
- `update` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--azure_reservations"></a>
### Nested Schema for `azure_reservations`

Read-Only:



<a id="nestedatt--gcp_cuds"></a>
### Nested Schema for `gcp_cuds`

Read-Only:

- `allowed_usage` (Number)
- `cpu` (Number)
- `cud_id` (String)
- `cud_status` (String)
- `end_timestamp` (String)
- `id` (String)
- `memory_mb` (Number)
- `name` (String)
- `plan` (String)
- `prioritization` (Boolean)
- `region` (String)
- `start_timestamp` (String)
- `status` (String)
- `type` (String)


