---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "castai_eks_cluster Resource - terraform-provider-castai"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  EKS cluster resource allows connecting an existing EKS cluster to CAST AI.
---

# castai_eks_cluster (Resource)

EKS cluster resource allows connecting an existing EKS cluster to CAST AI.



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `account_id` (String) ID of AWS account
- `name` (String) name of your EKS cluster
- `region` (String) AWS region where the cluster is placed

### Optional

- `access_key_id` (String, Sensitive, Deprecated) AWS access key ID of the CAST AI IAM account
- `assume_role_arn` (String) AWS ARN for assume role that should be used instead of IAM account
- `delete_nodes_on_disconnect` (Boolean) Should CAST AI remove nodes managed by CAST AI on disconnect
- `dns_cluster_ip` (String, Deprecated) Overrides the IP address to use for DNS queries within the cluster. Defaults to 10.100.0.10 or 172.20.0.10 based on the IP address of the primary interface
- `instance_profile_arn` (String, Deprecated) AWS ARN of the instance profile to be used by CAST AI
- `override_security_groups` (List of String, Deprecated) Optional custom security groups for the cluster. If not set security groups from the EKS cluster configuration are used.
- `secret_access_key` (String, Sensitive, Deprecated) AWS secret access key of the CAST AI IAM account
- `ssh_public_key` (String, Deprecated) Accepted values are base64 encoded SSH public key or AWS key pair ID.
- `subnets` (List of String, Deprecated) Custom subnets for the cluster. If not set subnets from the EKS cluster configuration are used.
- `tags` (Map of String, Deprecated) Tags which should be added to CAST AI nodes
- `timeouts` (Block, Optional) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--timeouts))

### Read-Only

- `cluster_token` (String, Sensitive) CAST AI cluster token.
- `credentials_id` (String) CAST AI internal credentials ID
- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `security_groups` (List of String, Deprecated) IDs of security groups that are used by CAST AI

<a id="nestedblock--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String)
- `delete` (String)
- `update` (String)


